Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
Previously...
God willing. I'll see you soon.
I love you all.
I'm very sorry to tell you
that Ben is dead.
Ben.
There was a massacre.
The Mohawk leader. Joseph Brant.
led a raid on a rebel town.
The Continentals retaliated.
Marched along
the Susquehanna River.
Is that not where Shadow Lake
lies. with thy former wife?
Wahionhaweh
and Swiftest of Lizards...
I need to know
what happened to them.
Oggy and I will come with thee.
There's a redcoat officer
named Ferguson.
I know about him.
Cunningham means to attack you.
and take you to him.
Will he live?
I think so. but he might not
be able to walk.
Aah!
- I didn't think you'd come.
- We should talk.
Send for the devil.
the devil appears.
Good morning. Captain.
I couldn't tell you
what time of day it is.
but "good"
it most certainly is not.
Fortunately. for you.
you've lived to see another day.
I never doubted I would.
With or without your help.
it's not my time.
What's that awful smell?
Loss of bowel
and bladder control
is to be expected
with your type of injury.
I need to get up.
What did you do to me?
I removed the musket ball
from your back.
but it had done
quite a lot of damage.
I take it you still have
no sensation in your legs?
No.
I'll get some clean linen.
My Charlie.
Tell me what must be done.
Have you seen anyone
in this condition before?
Yes.
It's extremely unlikely...
that you'll ever walk again.
I...
I'll never walk?
But you'll continue
to have the use
of your arms and upper body.
But beyond that...
only time will tell.
It usually does.
And we rode as if
there were devils at our backs.
Managed to cut the men
from the 96 off
right at the border
of the Ridge...
twenty or so of them.
A skirmish broke out...
nothing we couldn't handle.
of course.
Was it. Mr. Cleveland?
No. I don't like to brag...
but since dead men
tell no tales...
They've all been killed?
You have nothing to fear
from them any longer.
Let's put it that way.
Take heart.
A bit of Loyalist blood
is good for the soil.
It appears you took no pleasure
whatsoever in the fight.
Well. there's sport in it.
I won't lie.
I warned you...
to make an example
out of those gunrunning
sons of bitches.
Aye. you did.
We heard you caught Cunningham.
brought him here.
He still alive?
For now.
Well. I hope
you make the most of it.
Make a show of him.
String him up.
and no one will ever
cross you again.
I have it in hand.
Mr. Cleveland.
Considering how you spoke
to me when last we met.
I had half a mind to sit back
and watch you dangle
from the end of a rope.
But here we are.
You owe me. Mr. Fraser.
Aye.
It's your own fault.
You knew his help would come
with a price.
You have my word.
Well...
what do you have to say
for yourself. then. Captain?
Where are my men?
They're alive. if that's
what you're wondering.
waiting on me
to decide their fate.
You had your wife save me.
so that you could have
the cruel pleasure
of seeing me put to death.
Is that it?
Are you going to kill me?
Not sure I can kill you.
Then you believe what I said...
that I will not go home
to the Lord
for five more years?
No.
It's only. my wife won't allow
me to harm you
while you're still in her care.
And how long will that be?
Perhaps you should just have
your revenge now.
I'm not dead.
But I may as well be.
I'm not sure I can stand it.
knowing the day is coming.
unable to change my stars.
I've always been able-bodied...
a soldier.
I imagined perhaps...
I would be slain in battle.
Aye.
More honor in that.
But you have made your bed.
Captain.
So now you must lie in it.
You will remain
in my custody here
until I can determine a more
appropriate fate for you.
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain ♪
♪ And sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over ♪
♪ The sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
I know this place...
this river.
Well. perhaps it is fairer to
say that this place knows thee.
I can envision
thee hunting. camping.
and feasting here...
with the other men.
Killed my first wolverine
with a bow and arrow
just a stone's throw from here.
I was born at Shadow Lake...
born a second time. I mean.
Died a death there. too.
Thee forgot to say "married."
We'll stay here tonight.
I'll start to prepare the camp.
I know thee loved Emily.
Don't be afraid to speak of her.
especially
in these circumstances.
If she's beautiful...
you may say so.
She was beautiful.
Aye.
I think of her now and then...
not often.
Why should thee
not think of her?
She was the mother
of thy children...
a woman who shared thy bed.
thy body...
and a good bit of thy soul.
did she not?
But our souls weren't
meant to be one.
I wonder if hers is...
still with us.
I'm so sorry.
Oh.
My wee Oggy.
What does that mean?
It's Mohawk for "I love you."
"I'm sorry.
"I didn't mean to be here.
"but I have
the strongest feeling
that here is where
I'm supposed to be."
"Whom shall I send? Send me"?
Jesus Christ. What is this?
It's hard to explain.
When Francis Marion refused
to help with the guns.
I felt...
so defeated.
We'd come all this way.
But when I looked around
at the men. I felt...
I was overcome...
with a-with a sense of purpose.
of-of renewed conviction.
You couldn't leave them.
No. not like that...
...desperate and dying
in a godforsaken place.
And I-I mean that
in the truest sense of the word.
The gunfire...
the cannons...
it reminded me of going
through the stones. actually...
that fear of being torn apart.
of something pulling at you.
You feel your skull
will fly to...
Don't. Roger. please.
I- I don't want to know
how close you came to death.
My heart can't take it.
It's all right.
I promise.
But I need to tell you.
if that's okay...
...because it made me
realize something.
I want to be ordained.
But you had so many doubts.
Aye. I know.
There was a loud blast
near the end of the battle...
close to me. a cannon blast.
Sent me flying.
But I remembered
the sensation of falling
just for a split second
as a boy...
...and being caught
by my father.
It was the night my mother died.
I never understood
how I got out alive.
We'd gone to shelter
in the London Underground.
and it was bombed.
But...
she tossed me from the stairs
as they collapsed. and...
he-he caught me.
I don't know how.
but he was there.
I think...
Think I saved my father
when I sent him through
the stones.
and he saved me.
We were always
a part of history. Bree...
even if we didn't know it yet.
We didn't change God's plan.
We were always part of it.
So I know now.
I know that I've been called
to do the Lord's work...
...called to be here.
Well. if you're certain.
and I think you are.
it sounds like
a good plan to me.
Come here.
You know I worship you.
If you're wondering. Lord...
who to send for Roger's sake...
...send me.
I deserved that. I suppose.
Bleeker.
Ralph Bleeker.
It's pronounced "Rafe."
And it's "General Bleeker"
to you. sir.
You're a damned coward.
You couldn't just change your
coat and be straight about it.
No. you had to pretend
to be dead.
kill your whole family
with grief.
Think about it. Willie.
Which would my father prefer...
that I was dead
or that I'd joined
the Continental Army?
That would bloody kill him.
Or he'd kill you.
So...
what was it?
Rank. General Bleeker?
Can't have been money.
Heard of a man
called Thomas Paine?
He's a writer. was employed by
His Majesty's Board of Excise
but was dismissed and started
thinking about politics.
As one does when unemployed.
I suppose.
I met him in a tavern
in Philadelphia.
I thought he was interesting...
intense. I suppose you'd say.
Then when I was taken prisoner.
I had occasion
to read his pamphlet.
It's called Common Sense.
And it is common sense. damn it.
I became convinced that the
Americans were in the right.
and I couldn't
in conscience fight
on the side of tyranny
any longer.
You arrogant prick.
You've smeared your whole
family with excrement.
That's why I changed my name
and had word sent that I died.
for God's sake.
Even went so far as to have
a grave marked with my name.
should anyone come looking.
Well. someone did.
I did. you bloody fool.
I dug up that grave
in the middle of the night.
And you weren't in it...
though now I wish to God
you had been.
You're proving my point
remarkably well. William.
But what about your wife.
when she finds out?
You know. then?
So Uncle John
did let her stay with him.
Well. look. it's...
it's actually on account of her
that I. uh...
What?
Tell me.
It was her idea
I pretend I was dead.
I don't believe you.
She wanted me to do it.
not just for her
or my father's sake...
but for Trevor's.
Your beautiful wife.
How in God's name
could you leave Amaranthus?
That's not your damn business.
Why are you so concerned
with my wife anyway?
What in the hell have you
to do with her?
You want to know
what I've had to do with her?
Who do you think
has been consoling her.
comforting her in her grief?
An invader.
a traitor in our midst.
Take him to the guardhouse.
Ahroniawonrateh.
My friend.
You heard what happened?
It's why I've come...
to go to the village.
to learn the fate
of Wahionhaweh and our...
and her children.
Do not go there.
Nothing left but ashes.
I'm sorry.
My own village burned
to the ground as well.
And the people?
Were they able to flee?
Some.
Our scouts learned
of the impending attack.
Kaheroton. among others.
rode out
to meet the Continentals.
They perished.
But their brave sacrifice
allowed time
for others in the villages
to escape.
though not all.
And Wahionhaweh
and her children?
I do not know.
but there is someone
who may be able to tell you.
Can you think of anything
I've left out?
No. uh. think that's enough.
Would you really shoot them
if they came back?
These men betrayed me.
hunted me like a wild animal
across my own land.
all for the sake of what
they call. king's justice.
If they come within my sight
or my land again.
aye. I will kill them.
Well. I don't think
they'd be foolish enough
- to try anything again.
- Mm.
Many of our tenants are still
deciding which way they'll go.
And they'll be watching me
to see. am I weak?
Will I fall?
What about the women
and their children?
They shouldn't be punished for
their husbands' transgressions.
What will they do
without their homes
and their land?
Where will they go?
A good husband
would've thought of that.
and a wise one
would've listened to his wife.
Well. you can't be sure
that they did know about it...
just because you consult
with your wife.
Bell. book. and candle.
Ring the bell. close the book.
quench the candle.
The right of excommunication
and anathema. Sassenach...
that is what I've done.
"As you have each
and all conspired
"and acted to attack
and arrest me
"with the desired end
of causing my death.
"the contract of tenancy
signed between us
"is. as of this date.
rendered null and void
in its entirety."
"By such actions
as you have undertaken.
"you have broken my trust
and betrayed your sworn word.
"Therefore. you are each and all
"hereby evicted from the land
you presently occupy.
"dispossessed of your title
to said land.
"and are required
to depart with your families
from Fraser's Ridge
within the space of ten days."
"If you seek to return
to Fraser's Ridge.
you'll be shot on sight."
Where's Mr. Crombie?
Something for him.
A letter? Is that all. sir?
I can it to get him
if you'd like.
He isnae here.
Hiram!
I. uh...
I regret what happened at Lodge.
Is that supposed to be
an apology. Mr. Crombie?
I did what I thought I had to.
I didn't act
against you personally.
Oh. aye.
Captain Cunningham
had convinced me
it's impossible to fight
the King's army and prevail.
'Tis folly to side
with the Continentals.
and I'm not the only one
to think so.
Does the opinion of your
settlers mean so little to you?
It does if they try to stab me
in the back.
I was only trying
to protect my family.
As am I. Mr. Crombie.
So. I'm sure you'll understand
when I tell you
you are no longer welcome here.
The Beardsleys will be
taking over the trading post.
As stipulated.
you have ten days
to gather your things and go.
If you'll kindly wait here.
the master will be
with you shortly.
I thank thee.
A beautiful home.
He was right. he must have
a foot in both worlds.
More than a foot. I think.
Joseph Brant has been to London
had an audience
with King George.
Thank you for receiving us.
I thank thee also.
Friend Thayendanegea.
We are grateful for thy time.
- You are a Quaker?
- I am.
Oh. and therefore
a peace-talker?
No. but we do come in peace.
This is my wife. Catherine.
Be welcome.
Not a Friend yourself.
then. Mr. Murray?
Friendly.
When last we met.
you were with the Continentals.
Is that still the case?
Aye.
Tea... thank goodness.
A rare treat
after a long journey.
When I read of the attack
on Shadow Lake. I had to come.
I need to know what happened
to the people of my clan.
You forfeited the right
to that knowledge
when you left
and joined the enemy.
I didna leave the Mohawk
to join the rebel cause.
I was told to leave.
I didna want to go at all.
But that doesna matter.
I cannae go on
without knowing
whether Wahionhaweh
and her children live.
And what does your current wife
have to say about that?
The Spirit has moved him
to look for them.
If they are dead.
then tell me...
so that I may mourn.
Need I remind you that it was
in fact the Continental Army
who burned the village?
Aye. in retaliation
for the brutal massacre
at Cherry Valley.
which you participated in.
If the Continentals
hadn't launched an assault
on the Iroquois village of
Onaquaga in the first place.
I would never have had to...
All who take the sword
shall perish by it.
War is an endless perpetuation
of violence.
How different things might be
if we women were at the helm.
It is a wise man indeed
who listens to his wife.
Particularly when he has had
two of them.
And both are still living.
Where is she?
I must see her.
You are a guest here
and in no position
to make demands.
Perhaps Mr. Murray
ought to consider
how his wives might feel
about this.
Wahionhaweh is here.
She's-she's here?
Her children. too.
Many of the dispossessed
are sheltering with us
before we journey north.
It is a shame
that you will not see them.
I respectfully ask
that you leave.
Mrs. Crombie.
Might I speak with you.
Mr. Fraser?
It appears I have little choice
in the matter.
We have come
to beg thy mercy. Laird...
not for ourselves
but for our bairns.
Please.
Get up. for God's sake.
Your husbands put you
up to this?
Our husbands forbade us to come.
said they'd beat us if
we stepped a foot out of doors.
But we willna stand for it.
They'd sacrifice us
and their bairns
for the sake
of their stubborn pride.
So we came anyway.
Your husbands are fools
and cowards.
And they'll pay the price
for their foolishness.
They ken what they were risking
when they cast their lots
with Cunningham.
And that's a-a risk
they should never have taken.
I put them out for good cause.
We understand
why you banished them.
And we ken even better
the kindness
ye've always shown our families.
You repaid my kindness
by betraying me.
Our husbands acted
without our knowledge...
betrayed us as well.
I'm sorry for ye.
Please...
dinna send us away.
We'll do anything.
whatever you ask of us.
We'll swear an oath
that our husbands will never
raise hand nor voice
against you in any matter.
And how exactly
do you mean to guarantee
this good behavior?
I suppose your wife
could answer that
for you. Mr. Fraser.
We have our ways.
If they refuse
to conduct themselves
in a manner befitting
honorable men...
surely you can imagine what
a wife might do to a husband
who's taken the roof from over
her and her children's heads.
I said what I said.
and I willna go back.
I cannae honor
a tenancy contract
made with the men
who would've seen me hanged.
Then it is with heavy hearts
and deep sorrow
that we will go.
May God bless ye
and yer family. sir.
Sorry. Rachel.
I can see now that all of this
has brought you pain.
It was too much to ask.
No.
No. all is well.
It isnae.
Can see it on your face.
I didn't think
I'd feel this way.
Heaven knows I tried
to put aside my feelings.
I'm a godly woman. after all.
Although thee often puts me
on a pedestal...
I am in fact still
an ordinary woman...
flesh and blood.
I would never hurt you.
But would thee have left her?
What do you mean?
I have you.
You are everything to me.
But would thee have left her
all those years ago if thee had
had any choice in the matter?
Then it is as I thought...
that thee would be
with her still.
Rachel...
I know it is irrational...
but when has love
ever been rational?
I prayed that Wahionhaweh
would be alive...
not only because
I wish her no harm.
but selfishly...
because ghosts have a way
of inserting themselves
where they are not wanted.
And a living. breathing wife
who has reappeared
would surely take up
much more room than any ghost.
I dinna need to see them.
'Tis enough for me to know
that they are alive.
We'll go home.
Physician to see you.
How does thee do this morning?
I've done better.
Well. I'm afraid to say
that thy condition
is somewhat alarming to me.
Take off thy britches
and bend over the bench. please.
I beg your pardon?
I mean to begin
by giving thee a clyster
to settle thy humors.
Must you?
My ass is the only
uninjured part of me.
Trust me.
Ah. no. uh. cold water
is not the best medium
for the purpose.
Private Chesley.
will you fetch me a bucket
of warm water. please?
Very well. sir.
I suppose you're safe in here
with him. sir?
Maybe it best you step out here
while I fetch the water. sir.
No. there is no danger.
His injuries have weakened him.
However.
I'm particularly concerned
about some of his symptoms.
The sooner I can perform
this noble act
to purge his backside
and cleanse his bowels.
- then I...
- I-I see.
Very good. sir.
He didn't bolt the door.
Should I make a run for it?
No. thee wouldn't get far.
Fear not.
I will insist that
thee has signs of smallpox
and will subsequently
escort thee to the quarantine
at the edge of camp.
where I think thee might die
as a result
of thine illness. sadly.
And I'll be sorry
to see thee go.
A fine physician you are.
Oh. well.
one less mouth to feed.
I do hope I'll see you again
on the other side of all this.
So do I...
God willing.
Henri-Christian.
- Bonjour.
Ah. who's your wee friend?
My petite grenouille. Pierre.
Papa says there's only room
for one frog in the house.
So I'm building him a new home
fit for a king.
Though Papa says
we don't like those either.
And is your papa home?
He is indeed.
And I have something for you.
It seems to have made
its way here
from your comrades in arms.
Oh.
This letter is
from Francis Marion.
He still has reservations
about Jamie.
But after your actions
in battle.
none whatsoever about you.
Then he'll help you?
Says he still needs a few days
to arrange it. but...
he'll get us the guns we need.
All right. sweetheart.
Bold of you to return.
I must admit.
I do not feel bold.
I feel afraid.
Why?
Because I must beg that thee
allow Ian to see Wahionhaweh.
He must.
And you are afraid
of this because...
you do not trust him.
I cannot say whether it is him
I do not trust or myself.
But that is
what I shall find out.
I have burned with a jealousy
I did not know I was capable of.
But I do not wish
to be consumed by it.
I'll admit...
I fear Ian's love
for Wahionhaweh
and hers for him.
If we were both standing
before him now
and each of us in peril...
whose aid
would he come to first?
But I cannot prevent him
from seeing her...
and. more importantly...
his son by her.
They have a son together?
No one else knows.
And I know Ian wishes
to keep it that way
for Wahionhaweh's sake.
Now thee can see why
we have traveled so very far.
How can I stand
between him and his child?
I risk losing Ian perhaps...
but it is a risk I must take
if I am to stay true to myself
and the woman
he fell in love with.
I will revoke
the letter of banishment.
But the contracts
I made with you. gentlemen.
- as tenants remain void.
- What?
From here on.
I will address your wives.
Kindly step forward.
please. ladies.
Your husbands
will swear their fealty to me
and turn in their weapons.
all of them.
How will we hunt?
Where will we get our meat?
As I told you. Mr. Crombie.
the Beardsleys will take charge
of the trading post.
Your wives can purchase meat
from them.
But...
No one is forcing you
to stay here.
'Tis true.
Please. Mr. Fraser.
continue with what
you were saying.
I willna have men on my land
that may plot against me.
But I will write new contracts
between myself
and each of you ladies
for the tenancy of the land.
Mind. this means each of you
are responsible for the rents
and other terms of the contract.
And if you want to accept
your husbands' advice and help.
all well and good.
But the land is yours. not his.
And if he proves false
either to you or to me.
he will answer for it to me.
even unto death.
We agree. Mr. Fraser.
and accept your terms.
Thank ye.
For yer kind forbearance.
we are so very grateful.
Thank ye.
You did the right thing.
Hope so.
I'm likely nurturing
a brood o' vipers.
but it does lighten
the weight on my heart.
Good.
And now you know
that the women will be watching
their husbands like hawks.
Blessed are the merciful.
for they shall obtain mercy.
- So they say.
- Mm.
I'm glad to hear
you're so filled with charity.
I hope you have not exhausted
your store for the day.
Evidently. I have
an endless store of it.
So...
what is it you want?
Charles can no longer
remain here
without supporters
and at your mercy.
I must ask that you let me
take him home.
He's my prisoner.
And he is my son.
Forgive me. Mrs. Cunningham.
but you're an old woman.
What if something should happen?
What if you should die
on the way to...
wherever it is
you want to take him?
I will leave that to God.
My trust in Him is considerable.
Where is it
you plan on taking him?
I want to take him home
to England.
Charles is all I have left.
And if I am to spend
the final years of his life.
my life.
wiping his bottom
and changing his sheets.
then I'd like to do it
in a place that...
well...
that is at least known to me.
Please...
don't make me beg.
But if I have to. I will.
I would do anything
for my child.
Wouldn't you?
White flowers.
For peace.
Thank you for this.
That must be her.
Is thee sure thee would
not prefer a moment alone
with Emily first?
I want you and the wee man
both with me.
If you have everything you need.
we'll leave you to it.
Perhaps you do not
know me anymore.
Am I a stranger to you?
A stranger I think I know.
This is?
Rachel. my wife.
and my wee son.
I am pleased to meet thee.
Ian has told me many
good things about thee.
thy daughter. and. of course...
thy beautiful son.
Health and happiness to you.
Do you still know me?
I am changed...
by sorrows.
Wahionhaweh.
I'm so glad ye're alive.
And...
I'm sorry about Kaheroton.
He was a good man.
I wish there was something
I could do.
There is something.
Anything.
Thayendanegea says the war
will be over soon.
but his wife's eyes say
he does not believe it.
And I had a terrible dream
about it
more than once.
But I prayed.
I prayed. and now you are here.
In my dream...
our son is captured by soldiers.
They are cruel.
They beat him.
And they force him to fight
in battle. and he is killed.
Will you take him
to live with you?
He will be safe by your side.
You can protect him from harm.
Take him home with us?
If your wife will have him
at her fire.
Of course we'll take him
if thee is certain.
Where's the baby?
What is your name?
He hasna got a real name.
Call him Oggy
till his proper name comes.
This dog is yours. my brother.
One of the many grandsons
of your wolf.
This is Rollo's grandson?
Do ye remember me?
I'm very glad to see ye.
Are you safe. lass?
- Yer wee girl?
- Yes.
It is only my precious boy
in this dream.
He will always be thy son.
but I'm honored that
he will be mine as well.
I'll certainly feed him
at my hearth all he wants ever.
I will love him as my own.
So...
you named my son for me.
Let me do the same for yours.
His name is Hunter.
You must be led by the Spirit.
That name is meaningful to me
in more ways than one.
I love you. always.
I love thee. too. forever.
In spite of everything?
If I'm going to spend
the rest of my life with thee.
I have to believe
that thee loves me
as much as I love thee
and our children.
In another lifetime. perhaps.
you and I might have been
great friends.
But as it is.
I must say farewell.
Keep your friends close
and your enemies closer.
How very wise.
I can't help but ask...
which was I?
I counted you
as a friend. Elspeth.
Goodbye. Claire.
Doesna mean our troubles
have gone away. Sassenach.
Cunningham may be gone.
but Major Ferguson is not.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today